---
layout: post
title: CQRS / Event Sourcing
---

## What does CQRS mean ?

> `tl;dr`
> The command is acting on models and produce information on the platform. This information is consolidate into different models which are designed specifically for queries which are, in turn, read only. This isolation between read and write, allows us to build and scale differently the read and write concerns systems.

CQRS stands for *[Command Query Responsability Segregation](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CQRS.html)* and is a pattern isolating the write and read concerns. Different data models and logic are written for the command and for the query.

By doing so, it is then possible to build differently the write concerned systems and the read write. Depending of the business logic, the read might leads 90% of the traffic while the write leads to 10%. Building different systems means that the code are shared between write and read, the servers are not shared as well and we can scale differently the read and the write systems.

Some queries might be build before it is querying, it is the case of statistics about users or platform usage. The information produced by them self leads to the statistics results. The query is simply requesting requesting a document into a database to get the information. The document is created after commands have been successfully executed: the commands are the information production of the platform.

## What does Event Sourcing mean ?

## Why to couple them together ?



The command is acting on the models and leads to updates. The query is read-only and retrieves information from the model.